about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

<figure>
  <img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/00053000_iterations_stylegan_me.png" alt="Generated by a StyleGan"/>
  <figcaption>This isn't a picture of me, but it's measurably similar to one*</figcaption>
</figure>


A salutation to you!

I'm Colin. I'm a very curious person, often reading articles or books, or tinkering with code. Sometimes to the point of being easily distracted. Deep learning is a particularly fascinating subject lately, thus the name of the blog! 

Learning about meta-learning also amuses me. I wonder if there's any way I could learn how to learn about meta-learning better...

[I love programming!]({{ site.baseurl }}/i-love-programming)

[The Song of The Twenty-Two-Two-Tuple Tuple]({{ site.baseurl }}/the-song-of-the-twenty-two-two-tuple-tuple/)


### Acknowledgements
This blog was inspired in large part by [AI Weirdness](http://aiweirdness.com). Have a look, it's delightful.

[XKCD](https://xkcd.com) has a special place in my part, especially the what-if series. My favorite is probably the one about the [Laser Pointer](https://what-if.xkcd.com/13/)

God, for inventing the universe, and giving me a brain to enjoy it with. He [hung over the deep](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Genesis+1:2&version=ESV) before it was cool. To paraphrase _Chariots of Fire_ a bit... "God made me for a purpose, but he also made me smart. And when I think, I feel His pleasure." To Him be the Glory.

And yes, I do belive this is a rational belief to have. For more on why I trust God, see [Why I Trust God]({{ site.baseurl }}/thoughts/why_i_trust_god/)

\* Generated by [StyleGan](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.04948), [Fréchet Inception Distance](https://nealjean.com/ml/frechet-inception-distance/)=0.05

### Random Psalm

<div w3-include-html="content.html"></div>
<iframe src="http://random-psalm.appspot.com/" width="100%" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen" sandbox></iframe>

Commit message:

CDL: adding feedback form, and updating song title.

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

<figure>
  <img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/00053000_iterations_stylegan_me.png" alt="Generated by a StyleGan"/>
  <figcaption>This isn't a picture of me, but it's measurably similar to one*</figcaption>
</figure>


A salutation to you!

I'm Colin. I'm a very curious person, often reading articles or books, or tinkering with code. Sometimes to the point of being easily distracted. Deep learning is a particularly fascinating subject lately, thus the name of the blog! 

Learning about meta-learning also amuses me. I wonder if there's any way I could learn how to learn about meta-learning better...

# Whimsy
[I love programming!]({{ site.baseurl }}/i-love-programming) My love life with respect to programming languages.

[The Song of The True Twenty-Two-"Two-Tuples" Tuple]({{ site.baseurl }}/the-song-of-the-twenty-two-two-tuple-tuple/) A syntactically valid limerick, exploring a quirk of Pythonic truthiness.



### Acknowledgements
This blog was inspired in large part by [AI Weirdness](http://aiweirdness.com). Have a look, it's delightful.

[XKCD](https://xkcd.com) has a special place in my part, especially the what-if series. My favorite is probably the one about the [Laser Pointer](https://what-if.xkcd.com/13/)

God, for inventing the universe, and giving me a brain to enjoy it with. He [hung over the deep](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Genesis+1:2&version=ESV) before it was cool. To paraphrase _Chariots of Fire_ a bit... "God made me for a purpose, but he also made me smart. And when I think, I feel His pleasure." To Him be the Glory.

And yes, I do belive this is a rational belief to have. For more on why I trust God, see [Why I Trust God]({{ site.baseurl }}/thoughts/why_i_trust_god/)

\* Generated by [StyleGan](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.04948), [Fréchet Inception Distance](https://nealjean.com/ml/frechet-inception-distance/)=0.05

### Random Psalm

<div w3-include-html="content.html"></div>
<iframe src="http://random-psalm.appspot.com/" width="100%" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen" sandbox></iframe>


### Feedback
[Tell me what you think of me](https://forms.gle/Hmod45m5fz4Ux6979).
